New button sentiment and appearance (#4067)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/components/button/examples.mdx

---

<LivePreviewControls>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Appearance">

## Appearance

Buttons come in three distinct appearances: solid, bordered, and transparent. These styles provide greater choice and flexibility for establishing hierarchy and affordance within a UI.

</LivePreview>

<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Sentiment">

## Sentiment

The buttons convey five sentiments through color—neutral, accented, negative, caution, and positive. Use them in your application designs as follows:

> - **Neutral**: Ideal for routine, non-urgent actions, or where the actions should blend in with the UI.

Reviewer: @mark-tate, you mentioned a potential specific order for the sentiments. Are you happy with this order?

Reviewer 2: it should be seen as a ramp, as otherwise they are open to interpretation and you just pick the color you like the look of. 

So a ramp would be

Negative
Caution
Neutral
Accented
Positive

Reviewer 3: I think listing them in a logical order (what you suggest) makes sense but i agree with Zhihao it's a logical order, not necessarily a ramp with directly opposing values. If we document in that order with clear definitions, that should be sufficient.

- **Accented**: Perfect for priority actions that need to stand out from the UI.
- **Negative**: Indicate actions that result in negative outcomes.
- **Caution**: Alert users to potential consequences that may arise from taking an action.
- **Positive**: Indicate actions that result in positive outcomes.

</LivePreview>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="IconAndText">

## Icon and text

Add an icon before the text to reinforce the button's purpose. Add an icon after the text to suggest movement or direction.

### Best practices

> - **Left of the Text**: Place an icon to the left of the text to further describe the action, such as "upload," "print," or "share." This additional description can make it easier for users to identify actions.

Reviewer: Or these quotes

- **Right of the Text**: Place an icon to the right of the text to suggest direction or movement, such as opening a menu overlay, expanding a panel, or exporting a document. When the user activates the button, there's typically an immediate visual change.

</LivePreview>

<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="IconOnly">

## Icon only

Use an icon-only button without text when screen space is limited, and the icon is easily understood by users.

### Best practices

- **Self-Explanatory Icons**: An icon-only button should use well-known symbols that are self-explanatory. If the icon's purpose isn't clear on its own, include a text description.

> - **Tooltips**: Add a [`Tooltip`](../tooltip) to an icon-only button to describe the action, such as "Edit this form," "Print this document," or "Lock document state."

Reviewer: I don't think these quotes should have been changed

---

<LivePreviewControls>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Appearance">

## Appearance

> The buttons come in three distinct appearances: solid, bordered, and transparent. These styles provide greater choice and flexibility for establishing hierarchy and affordance within a UI.

Reviewer: "The buttons" feels a bit weird, maybe we can just say "Buttons" instead?

</LivePreview>

<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Sentiment">

## Sentiment

The buttons convey five sentiments through color—neutral, accented, negative, caution, and positive. Use them in your application designs as follows:

- **Neutral**: Ideal for routine, non-urgent actions, or where the actions should blend in with the UI.
- **Accented**: Perfect for priority actions that need to stand out from the UI.
- **Negative**: Indicate actions that result in negative outcomes.
- **Caution**: Alert users to potential consequences that may arise from taking an action.
- **Positive**: Indicate actions that result in positive outcomes.

</LivePreview>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="IconAndText">

## Icon and text

Add an icon before the text to reinforce the button's purpose. Add an icon after the text to suggest movement or direction.

### Best practices

> **Left of the Text**: Place an icon to the left of the text to further describe the action, such as "upload," "print," or "share." This additional description can make it easier for users to identify actions.

Reviewer: Just more of a note, the best practices on this page don't follow our template

Use the disabled state for a button that the user can’t press.

A button with the prop `disabled={true}` will suppress all functionality.

</LivePreview>

<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="FocusableWhenDisabled" >

## Focusable when disabled

> If a disabled element can be enabled (either by the user or by the system), it should be focusable. To allows this you can pass `focusableWhenDisabled={true}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a disabled element can be enabled (either by the user or by the system), it should be focusable. To allow this, you can pass `focusableWhenDisabled={true}`.
```

> This is useful when you want to show a tooltip or a popover when the user hovers over the button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is useful when you want to show a tooltip or a popover when the user interacts with the button.
```

Use full width buttons on mobile devices or smaller viewports, the button will take up the full width of its container.

</LivePreview>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Deprecated" displayName="Deprecated variants">

## Deprecated variants

> The previous CTA, Primary, and Secondary buttons have been seamlessly mapped to their corresponding buttons in the new set. This means you can continue designing without missing a beat, while also taking advantage of the new options available.

Reviewer: The tone of voice drastically changes only in this copy.

Use full width buttons on mobile devices or smaller viewports, the button will take up the full width of its container.

</LivePreview>
  
<LivePreview componentName="button" exampleName="Deprecated">

> ## Deprecated

Reviewer: This should probably be Variant (Deprecated) or something, labelling it deprecated makes it harder to tell at a glance what the example is
